Vin McLellan <vin@shore.net> wrote:

>>[...] I hesitate to get into this, since I'm not qualified to judge
>>the viability of Prof. Schnorr's case, or even to effectively present
>>his technical arguments, but Schnorr's claims -- to judge from their
>>impact on DSA adoption, US crypto policy, and specifically the NSA's
>>strategy for managing the US standards process to ensure universal
>>government access to crypto keys (GAK)  -- are neither  trivial nor
>>vacuous.   
>>
>>	I think it is misleading to suggest that they are. 

	[long discussion of Schnorr, DSA, etc. snipped]

	Roger Schlafly <schlafly@cruzio.com> offered....

>Several points in response  [...]

>* All this spook conspiracy talk belongs in the X-files. The specs
>for Fortezza have been declassified. Sure, the NSA has some
>GAK-related motives, but these grand conspiracy theories just
>haven't panned out.

        Actually, I don't think of the NSA's plots to deny everyone
but themselves (and those they dub worthy) access to strong un-GAKed
commercial cryptography as a conspiracy, per se. NSA officials acted
upon a fairly open if Byzantine strategy. It was hatched by men who
obviously believe that Western liberal society is best safeguarded if
the US can continue to gleen the benefits of the huge passive
eavesdropping net that has for decades sustained America's
geo-political dominance.

        I think they're wrong, and I think their efforts are futile,
but no one can deny they have effectively stalled widespread use of
strong crypto for a fifteen years, and will for a bit longer.
Conspirators? Well, the NSA's strategists are of a class and
generation which believes that narrow "national security" interests
and military goal-tending can better safeguard American and Western
cultural dominance than a fairly-won hegemony in a flourishing and
open capitalist market. 

        Despite Dr. Schlafly's derision, one need to subscribe to the
Professor Moriarty School of Historical Interpretation to acknowledge
the reality of the NSA's long campaign to block the commercial
adoption of software-based public-key-based crypto in computer and
commmunications systems.  When the Schnorr patents and the DSA came to
the fore, their proclaimed goal was to supplant strong PKC with with
the NSA's own silicon-only Capstone for key-enchange. When that
failed, they attempted to legislate "key escrow." And when that
failed, they promoted "key recovery." Export control, unpredictable
and subjective in application, effectively bludgeoned the vendors into
line.)  

        This is not some "X Files" action/adventure script, and I take
mild offense at the suggestion. 

	This is simply what everyone in this industry has lived through in
the past decade. The outline of Bill Crowell's strategy is vivid still
in the BXA export regs, the Wassenaar Arrangement, and the regular
Congressional testimony of Mr. Reinsch, Mr. Freeh, Mr. Lee, and Ms.
McNamara.

        Dr.  Schlafly, as he has prosecuted his long campaign against
RSA in the standards orgs as well as the courts, has doubtless rubbed
shoulders with a number of well-known NSA reps with similar goals, if
different motives. While a bit less forward these days, they still
dominate much of the process -- the ABA's witless claims of X.9
independence to the contrary. 

>* Claus Schnorr is a brilliant man, but he is not an expert in US 
>patent law.

        Maybe true -- although I suspect that Claus Schnorr's study of
international and US patent law has been as intense and deep as Roger
Schlafly's own not-inconsiderable scholarship as a layman in law.

>* Schnorr sold his patent rights to Siemens and RSADSI, so his
>opinion is irrelevant. Others are enforcing the patent.
>
>* RSADSI does NOT claim that practice of the DSA infringes
>Schnorr's patent. RSADSI lawyers have specifically repudiated
>such coverage in open court. Anyone who thinks that there is some
>nonzero chance that the Schnorr patent covers DSA is uninformed.

        I said before that the question is today largely academic, and
I hope Prof. Schnorr has benefited handsomely from his alliance with
RSA and SDTI (for whom I have long been a consultant).  But what was
proposed in '90,'91,'92 as strategy to warp the market (the NSA's
DSA/Capstone scheme) was effectively blocked with political tactics,
the 1992 RSA threat of a challenge to DSA based on the Schnorr patents
prominent among them.  That a weapon is not used does not mean it was
useless.

        More to the point, while Prof. Schnorr argues that his US
patent covers DSA, I suspect that even patent experts who disagree
with him on that point might nevertheless conceed (or at least worry)
that his broader European and Japanese patents are more likely to
cover the DSA. If the Schnorr patents had been used to challenge the
DSA, the suit could as easily be filed in Europe -- where Courts may
be less susceptable to the suggestion that the NSA created the DSS in
a novel burst of generosity and community service.

        Again, in 1992, at least two firms of patent law specialists
hired by NIST to review the prospect of defending the DSA against a
Schnorr challenge declared themselves uncertain of the outcome of any
court case.  Then, those opinions had a significant impact on US
policy. 

>* Yes, DSS was intended for authentication, not confidentiality.
>Most crypto people have now come around to the view that
>encryption and signature keys should be separate.
>
>* Although DSA does not explicitly give a confidentiality method
>(encryption or key agreement), the closely related Diffie-Hellman
>methods are well-known and widely used. Use of DSA does not
>inhibit confidentiality.

        You are taking the NSA's DSA out of the historical context
within which it was proposed.  

        Eight years ago, the standardization of the DSA in the DSS --
in the face of the already widespread acceptance of RSA (which offers
both authetication and key-management) as a de facto industry standard
-- was explicitly intended to inhibit vendor (and user) access to
confidentiality.  

        In those days, of course, Diffie-Hellman was also patented and
commercially licensed, first by PTP, then by Cylink (where former NSA
Deputy Director William P. Crowell is now president.)   

	Putting aside the relative efficiency of RSA for signature
verification, I don't doubt that, at that time, the widespread
adoption of the DSA paired with Diffie-Hellman for PKI
(key-management) would have been no more welcomed by the NSA than the
widespread use of RSAPKC was. 
 
        Back then, you didn't see any willingness to permit X.9 or the
ISO to standardize on D-H for PKI either, did you?  Not likely.  DSA
was expected and intended to be paired with GAKed Capstone
key-management. And the simple goal of that strategy -- phrased
somewhat differently by its advocates, of course;-) -- was to leave
every confidential digital communication stained with the possibility
that LEAs or "national security" agencies might be eavesdropping.  

        In telephonic society, most citizens here and abroad live with
something close to that, I admit -- but to extend it into the digital
culture would break down many of the enclaves that today exist for
both personal and commercial confidentiality.

        I've always thought you had to rate a limousine inside the
Beltway to believe that high finance and commercial trade  -- the
e-commerce we count on for 21st Century prosperity -- could flourish
under those conditions.  The necessity of personal privacy is more
debatable, but thankfully (by my lights), one is unlikely without the
other.
        
>* We may soon find out whether historians will find that patents
>contributed to the spread of strong crypto. The MIT/RSA patent
>runs out in Sept. 2000. My guess is that use of strong crypto will
>go up at that time, not down.

        The context of this discussion is different.  The issue is not
whether patents contributed to the spread of strong crypto -- although
I think a good case can be made for that in the US -- but rather
whether the existance of defensible patents on PKC staved off the US 
government's systemic assault on crypto-enabled confidentiality when
the issue was still in doubt. 

	Cryptography has never been allowed to be wholly, or even largely, a
creature of the market. The political strictures upon its use, rather
than the market's appetite for its functionality, was always the
defining factor. The Schnorr patents, with the threat they posed to
the DSA, played a timely and important role in balking the NSA's
campaign for government access to keys.

	(I beg the readers pardon for my apparent pretentiousness. Crypto
politics is a big topic which requires glib reference to big ideas and
complex history. I don't think young people or newbies are well served
if we deny or forget our own experience, however, which is why I
entertain you with these recollections.)

        Surete,
                _Vin

--------
  "Cryptography is like literacy in the Dark Ages. Infinitely potent,
for good and ill... yet basically an intellectual construct, an idea,
which by its nature will resist efforts to restrict it to bureaucrats
and others who deem only themselves worthy of such Privilege."
  _A Thinking Man's Creed for Crypto  _vbm

 *     Vin McLellan + The Privacy Guild + <vin@shore.net>    *
      53 Nichols St., Chelsea, MA 02150 USA <617> 884-5548
